It might be easier, but it’s usually not cheaper! Sans the cost of labor, repair can be quite cost effective. There are lots of other good reasons to become a proficient technician, too: ?
It’s fun. You’ll get a strong sense of satisfaction when your efforts yield a properly working gadget. It feels a bit like you’re a detective solving a murder case, and it’s more fun to use your noodle than your wallet.
It’s absorbing. Learning to repair things is a great hobby to which you can devote many fruitful hours. It’s good for your brain, and it beats watching TV any day (unless you fixed that TV yourself!).
It’s economical. Why pay retail for new electronics when you can get great stuff cheap or even free? Especially if you live in or near a city, resources like craigslist.org will provide all the tech toys you want, often for nothing. Lots of broken gadgets are given away, since bringing them in for repair costs so much. They’re yours for the taking. All you have to do is fix ‘em!
It can be profitable. Some of the broken items people nonchalantly discard are surprisingly valuable. When your tech skills become well developed, you’ll be able to repair a wide variety of devices and sell what you don’t want for yourself.
It can preserve rare or obsolete technology. Obsolete isn’t always a negative term! Some older technologies were quite nice and have not been replaced by newer devices offering the same features, utility or quality. The continued zeal of analog audio devotees painstakingly tweaking their turntables offers a prime example of the enduring value of a technology no longer widely available.
It’s green. Every product kept out of the landfill is worth two in ecological terms: the one that doesn’t get thrown away and the one that isn’t purchased to replace it. The wastefulness of tossing out, say, a video projector with a single capacitor is staggering. To rip off an old song, “Nothing saves the green’ry like repairing the machin’ry in the morning….”
Your friends and family will drive you crazy. Being a good tech is like being a doctor: everyone will come to you for advice and help. Okay, maybe this one isn’t such an incentive, but it feels great to be able to help your friends and loved ones, doesn’t it? Being admired as an expert isn’t such a terrible thing either.